---
title: Emergent Connectors for Eternal Software Intensive Networked Systems
agreement_num: 231167
type: FP7 Fet
status: on going
people: Antinisca Di Marco
website: http://connect-forever.eu/
---
The CONNECT Integrated Project aims at enabling continuous composition of networked
systems to respond to the evolution of functionalities provided to and required from the
networked environment. At present the efficacy of integrating and composing networked
systems depends on the level of interoperability of the systems’ underlying technologies.
However, interoperable middleware cannot cover the ever growing heterogeneity dimensions
of the networked environment. CONNECT aims at dropping the interoperability barrier by
adopting a revolutionary approach to the seamless networking of digital systems, that is,
synthesizing on the fly the connectors via which networked systems communicate. The
resulting emergent connectors are effectively synthesized according to the behavioral
semantics of application- down to middleware-layer protocols run by the interacting parties.
The synthesis process is based on a formal foundation for connectors, which allows learning,
reasoning about and adapting the interaction behavior of networked systems at run-time.
Synthesized connectors are concrete emergent system entities that are dependable,
unobtrusive, and evolvable, while not compromising the quality of software applications. To
reach these objectives the CONNECT PROJECT undertakes interdisciplinary research in the
areas of behavior learning, formal methods, semantic services, software engineering,
dependability, and middleware. Specifically, CONNECT will investigate the following issues
and related challenges: (i) Modeling and reasoning about peer system functionalities, (ii)
Modeling and reasoning about connector behaviors, (iii) Runtime synthesis of connectors, (iv)
Learning connector behaviors, (v) Dependability assurance, and (vi) System architecture. The
effectiveness of CONNECT research will be assessed by experimenting in the field of wide
area, highly heterogeneous systems where today’s solutions to interoperability already fall
short (e.g., systems of systems).
